# Проєкт на англійську про Україну
Ukraine's history originates from the 9th century, when [[Київська Русь|Kievan Rus]] was established by Prince Oleg. In the following centuries the country was growing and prospering. Then the ancestors of Oleg started dividing [[Київська Русь|Rus]] between themselves and were soon conquered. The last kingdom was captured in the 14th century. Then for many years the teritory of Ukraine has been occupied by [[Польща|Poland]], [[Литва|Lithuania]] and Mongols. In the 17th century Cossacks, people that wanted freedom, started moving to the east steppes. They were quasi-independent from [[Польща|Poland]] and helped it to fight Turks and Tatars, but later founded Cossack Hetmanate. [[Польща|Poland]] was obviously not happy and Cossacks had to turn to [[Росія|Russia]] for help. However [[Росія|Russia]] and [[Польща|Poland]] divided teritories among themselves and the alliance became more like autonomy. In 1764 it was completely incorporated into [[Росія|Russia]], where Ukrainian culture was being destroyed and people assimilated. Only in 1917 there was a short independence period. After 4 years bolshevick [[Росія|Russia]] and Poles divided Ukraine again. There was in theory a Ukrainian state under [[СРСР|USSR]], but it was controlled from Moscow and Ukrainian culture was respected there only in the 1920s. In 1930s there was a [[Голодомор|Holodomor]], a starvation genocide lead by bolshevicks, during which 3 - 10 million Ukrainians died. Only in 1991 did Ukraine become truly independent, when [[СРСР|USSR]] collapsed.

Ukraine is the biggest Europe country and 40 million people live here. About 80% of them are Ukrainians, 15% are Russians and 5% are other nationalities.
The nature is pretty diverse: mountains, hills, steppe, forests, swamps, sea... There are old cities and castles.
The most popular sport is football. Ukrainians are well-known box champions across the world. It is also a home for one of the best cybersport teams - [[Na'Vi]].

So even though there is currently a war in Ukraine, it will be a truly nice place to visit after the victory.


